Refactor and improve Technical Reference > Parachain > Consensus > Assets & Smart Contracts (#1129)
polkadot-developers/polkadot-docs: reference/polkadot-hub/smart-contracts.md

---
title: Polkadot Hub Smart Contracts
description: Learn how Polkadot Hub supports smart contracts through the REVM, a Rust-based Ethereum Virtual Machine compatible runtime.
categories: Polkadot Protocol
---

# Smart Contracts on Polkadot Hub

--8<-- 'text/smart-contracts/polkaVM-warning.md'

## Introduction

Polkadot’s relay chain does not support smart contracts directly. Instead, developers deploy contract-based applications on parachains that provide execution environments. Polkadot Hub supports smart contracts through the REVM, a Rust-based Ethereum Virtual Machine compatible runtime.

> REVM enables developers to run standard Ethereum bytecode on Polkadot Hub, giving teams a path to migrate existing Solidity contracts while interacting with on-chain assets and other parachains via XCM.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
REVM brings Ethereum compatibility to Polkadot Hub, letting developers run Solidity contracts alongside Polkadot’s native features—such as governance, treasury, multisig, and XCM—within a unified, interoperable runtime environment.
```
Polkadot Hub is so much more than just assets and XCM. Let's emphasize this here. Smart contracts get to tap into native Polkadot services.

This guide explains how smart contracts are deployed, executed, and integrated on Polkadot Hub using REVM.

<!-- TODO: Can we scrap this?
 ## Building a Smart Contract

Polkadot Hub supports multiple smart contract environments, giving developers the freedom to choose the workflow and tooling that best fits their project:

- **PolkaVM**: A next-generation virtual machine designed specifically for Polkadot. Built on a high-performance [RISC-V-based register architecture](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/RISC-V){target=_blank}, PolkaVM enables fast, scalable execution and is optimized for modern smart contract development.
- **REVM**: The [REVM backend](https://github.com/bluealloy/revm){target=_blank} brings a full Rust implementation of the EVM to Polkadot Hub. This allows developers to deploy existing Solidity contracts without modification, preserving compatibility with Ethereum tools and libraries.

Each of these environments is fully compatible with Polkadot Hub, giving teams the option to reuse Ethereum code, build with Rust security guarantees, or explore high-performance innovation with PolkaVM.

### PolkaVM Contracts

> PolkaVM is Polkadot Hub’s native, high-performance smart contract engine. Instead of emulating EVM bytecode, it executes contracts compiled to a RISC-V instruction set, giving tighter control over execution, metering, and parallelization while staying friendly to Ethereum-style development.

Reviewer: There is no need to emphasize "tighter execution control" instead you can highlight performance.

**What it enables for developers**
- **Ethereum-compatible development** – Write contracts in Solidity and use familiar tooling (e.g., Hardhat/Foundry workflows) with PolkaVM targets.
- **Fast, predictable execution** – RISC-V bytecode is designed for efficient interpretation and careful gas/weight metering within the Substrate runtime.
- **Better observability** – Substrate events + contract logs for clean indexing and debugging.

**How it works (at a glance)**

1. **Author & compile** – Your Solidity contract is compiled for PolkaVM (RISC-V target), producing bytecode plus ABI.
2. **Deploy** – Submit a signed extrinsic to Polkadot Hub; collators include it in a parachain block.
3. **Execute** – PolkaVM runs the contract code, mapping gas ↔ weight and persisting state via Substrate storage.
4. **Integrate** – Contracts can interact with Polkadot Hub pallets and send/receive XCM messages for cross-chain actions.
5. **Finalize & index** – The relay chain finalizes the block; events/logs are available to indexers and UIs.

**When to choose PolkaVM**

- You want **max performance** and tighter execution control than a traditional EVM.

> - You plan to **compose with Substrate pallets** (assets, governance) and **XCM** frequently.

Reviewer: This is not relevant and not entirely true. Please remove.

> - You prefer a path that’s **Solidity-friendly** but optimized for Polkadot’s architecture. -->

Reviewer: Remove.

> ### REVM Contracts

Reviewer: REVM should come before PVM.
